Rewrite Beatmap Discussion article (#3126)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Beatmap_Discussion/en.md

---
tags:
  - Modding v2
  - mv2
---

# Beatmap discussion

**Beatmap discussion** (also known as *Modding v2*) is a system to manage and simplify the process of [modding](/wiki/Modding). It aims to provide a clear and understandable interface, where the improvement of a beatmap is in focus.

When a beatmap is [submitted](/wiki/Submission), a discussion page is automatically created alongside the beatmap info page. When the beatmap is updated, the discussion page will be updated along with it. The discussion page can be reached by clicking on the `Discussion` button on the info page. <!--TODO: insert link to beatmap info page article, when that article exists-->

The beatmap discussion page consists of a few elements (from top-to-bottom):

- Mode selection
- Beatmap header
- Difficulty menu
- Sorting options
- Visual timeline
- Beatmap status
- Modding tabs
- Submission field
- Discussions

> You can follow along with our images from [this beatmap](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/924551/discussion/) to get familiar with Beatmap Discussions or try opening a discussion page yourself!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can follow along with our images from [this beatmap](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/924551/discussion/) to get familiar with beatmap discussion or try opening a discussion page yourself!
```

I don't think beatmap discussion needs to be capitalized... maybe I'm wrong?

Author: it doesnt

> ## Quick-start: Using Beatmap Discussions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quick-start
```

It's important to keep a few things in mind to use the Beatmap Discussion pages effectively:

- Choose the correct mode and difficulty you wish to mod.
- Select the proper section you are submitting your mod to.
- **Only post one issue at a time.** Do not submit multiple issues in a single post.
- Check to see if the issue has already been addressed when the similar post warning pops up.

> - Do you like the beatmap? Give your hype to help the beatmap move closer to nomination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you liked the beatmap, give your hype to help the beatmap move closer to nomination.
```
maybe? I was also thinking that `give it a hype to help` might be better

## Mode selection

![](img/mode-selection.jpg "Mode selection.")

> Mode selection changes the game mode between the different modes: [osu!standard](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!), [osu!taiko](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!taiko), [osu!catch](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!catch), and [osu!mania](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!mania). It is only possible to select a game mode if the beatmapset has a difficulty of that game mode. This feature is mainly used for beatmaps which contain difficulties of multiple game modes. For normal beatmaps this remains untouched, since the discussion page automatically switches to the current game mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mode selection changes the [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode) you are modding. It is only possible to select a game mode if the beatmapset has a difficulty of that game mode. This is only used with beatmaps that contain multiple game modes; otherwise, it will default to the mapped game mode.
```

## Beatmap header

> ![](img/beatmap-header.jpg "Beatmap header.")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](img/beatmap-header.jpg "Beatmap header")
```
I don't think you need full stops here in the image caption

> ![](img/beatmap-header.jpg "Beatmap header.")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](img/beatmap-header.jpg "Beatmap header")
```
I don't think you need full stops here in the image caption

> The beatmap header displays the Title and Artist-name provided in the [beatmap editor](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor). Clicking the beatmap header will navigate back to the beatmap info page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The beatmap header displays the title and artist provided in the [beatmap editor](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor). Clicking the beatmap header will navigate back to the beatmap info page.
```

> To see correct formatting, romanization and potential tags to be added to the title and artists fields, see the [Ranking Criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria#metadata).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*For information about setting the metadata, see: [Ranking Criteria § Metadata](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria#metadata)*
```

## Difficulty menu

![](img/difficulty-menu.jpg "Difficulty menu.")

> You can select different [difficulties](/wiki/Difficulties) through the dropdown menu. This will show all currently available difficulties, along with older deleted ones that have had suggestions/problems. The number that appears besides a difficulty's name is the number of unresolved posts on that specific difficulty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select different [difficulties](/wiki/Difficulties) through the dropdown menu. This will show all currently available difficulties, along with older-deleted ones that have had suggestions/problems. The number that appears besides a difficulty's name is the number of unresolved posts on that specific difficulty.
```

It is important to check this menu before submitting any mods, to see if you are submitting them to the correct difficulty and avoid any miscommunication.

## Sorting options

![](img/sorting-options.jpg "For your sorting needs.")

> Sorting options change the way beatmap discussions are viewed. Whenever an option is chosen, it changes both the modding timeline and the modding section to include only those types of posts. Different options include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sorting options change the way beatmap discussions are viewed. Whenever an option is chosen, it changes both the modding timeline and the modding section to include only selected types of posts. Different options include:
```

> - Mine: Shows your own posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Mine`: Shows your own posts
```

> - Notes: Shows any notes by the mapper or [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/Beatmap_Nominators)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Notes`: Shows any notes by the mapper or [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/Beatmap_Nominators)
```

> - Resolved: Shows resolved posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Resolved`: Shows resolved posts
```

> - Pending: Shows pending posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Pending`: Shows pending posts
```

> - Praises: Shows praise and hype posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Praises`: Shows praise and hype posts
```

> - All: Shows all posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `All`: Shows all posts
```

## Visual timeline

![](img/visual-timeline.jpg "Mod posts spread out on the timeline.")

The visual timeline displays all of the mods made for a difficulty which use a timestamp. Clicking on any of these will scroll down to the mod posted at that timestamp. Note that any filtering options will change what is displayed here. The visual timeline is a useful tool for seeing how much a beatmap has been modded at a glance. A tightly packed timeline would mean that a beatmap has received a lot of attention already.

> The selected difficulty's difficulty settings are displayed on top of the visual timeline. From left-to-right these describe a difficulty's `Length`, `BPM`, `Circle Count` and `Slider Count`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected difficulty's difficulty settings are also displayed on top-right of the visual timeline. From left-to-right these describe a difficulty's `Length`, `BPM`, `Circle Count` and `Slider Count`.
```

## Beatmap status

![](img/beatmap-status.jpg "Contains important information!")

The beatmap status bar shows everything relevant to a beatmap's spot in the [Beatmap Ranking Procedure](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure). This includes:

- Hype train
- General info
- Watch/Unwatch buttons
- Beatmap Page button

### Hype train

> The Hype Train tracks how many [hypes](/wiki/Glossary#hype) a mapset has received. Once 5 hypes have been achieved, the beatmap can be nominated by [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/Beatmap_Nominators). Hypes can only be given by going to the `General (All Difficulties)` tab. It will not work through the `General` or the `Timeline` tabs. Clicking the `Hype` button on the beatmap status bar will automatically move you to the correct tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hype train tracks how many [hypes](/wiki/Glossary#hype) a mapset has received. Once 5 hypes have been achieved, the beatmap can be nominated by [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/Beatmap_Nominators). Hypes can only be given by going to the `General (All Difficulties)` tab. It will not work through the `General` or the `Timeline` tabs. Clicking the `Hype` button on the beatmap status bar will automatically move you to the correct tab.
```
